.. title: What is wrong with the world??
.. slug: What_is_wrong_with_the_world
.. date: 2005-11-30 14:17:00 UTC+10:00
.. tags: blog,politics
.. category: James
.. link: 

Whilst cruising through my Google News RSS feed I ran into this story
about `a guy protesting up a tree`_. As in *he is sitting in a tree* -
literally. Why? Because Qantas and Air New Zealand have introduced a
policy to ban men from sitting next to unaccompanied children. (
*Queue stunned bunny look*) I sat there and could not think of one
logical reason for this. The real world is not "Flight Plan" - people
really don't go missing on aircraft in flight and there is basically
nowhere the travelling public could go to get the level of
privacy/concealment required to molest/abuse a child.

I am a parent. I have a beautiful daughter. Would I be concerned about
her travelling unaccompanied because she was sitting next to a man?
Hell no! You have to look at these things as a "degree" of risk.
Playing Russian roulette with a loaded gun is risky, crossing the road
is risky, having your child molested/abused on an airline flight is
**NOT** a significant risk. You've got more chance of the plane
crashing than of a child being abused!

It's this kind of mindless knee-jerking that really irritates me. It's
up there with plastic knives on flights, and other pointless
"security" measures. It really achieves nothing, except making the
uninformed and timid feel better. The focus is in the wrong place.
Rather than prevent "dangerous" objects from getting into the hands of
people with violent intent (or putting children next to potential
child molesters), they should be keeping those people OFF the flight
in the first place!

I flew to the USA in November 2001; merely weeks after the attacks in
New York and Washington. I had to declare to the check-in staff that I
was a fully qualified airline transport pilot. Why? So they could
assess whether or not I should be allowed to board! Fair enough. After
the cockpits were reinforced to prevent forced entry, the requirement
for me to inform check-in staff stopped. My point is that they were
attempting to keep the threat OFF the plane, rather than prevent the
threat from being able to carry out any malicious activity.

If Qantas and Air New Zealand are REALLY serious about protecting my
unaccompanied daughter, why not screen passengers and don't let those
with convictions for child sex offences board! Then the rest of the
travelling public can allowed to travel without discrimination or
bias.

OK, what about the dirty perverts who haven't been caught/convicted
you say? Well, that's an inherent risk **everywhere**. If you worry
that much about risks you cant control or foresee, then lock your
children up; the world is far too dangerous. Manage the risks you know
of in proportion the likelihood of the risk becoming a reality. You
don't let your kids play with knives in the toaster, but I'm sure you
let them run around the back yard. Ever sat down and THOUGHT about how
many dangerous situations can develop in your own back yard?!
Poisonous animals, falls, cuts, drowning in a bucket, the list goes
on.

I'm all for protecting our children, but lets get real about it and
stop discriminating against the white, heterosexual male majority!






.. _a guy protesting up a tree: http://www.stuff.co.nz/stuff/0,2106,3496563a11,00.html


