.. title: Busy week!
.. slug: Busy_week
.. date: 2005-11-12 16:03:00 UTC+10:00
.. tags: James,blog
.. category: 
.. link: 

It's been an extordinarily busy week with work taking me places I
didn't think I'd go. Home life has suffered (usually the way) and the
grass is now 2 inches tall! To top it all off, there's something
decidely screwy going on with my neck. Wow. What a week. It's been all
go, no stop, don't-even-take-a-breath week at work. Seems I've been
roped into the "technical pre-sales" role. This isn't totally a bad
thing. In fact it's an aspect of the IT industry I've pretty much
ignored until now. The business development manager at work has
indicated she thinks I have a certain degree of natural talent in the
field and has given me the opportunity to explore and see if it's
something I might be interested in. So never wanting to miss an
opportunity I jumped in boots-and-all! Next thing I know, I'm on a
plane to Brisbane for some technical training and in a week or so,
I'll be off to Melbourne to do some technical demonstrations and
general Q&A type stuff with other uber-nerds. Sounds like fun!

Unfortunately though, with this added work load, my family time has
been cut into again. Life sux like that. Every thing I do in one area,
takes away from time and energy in another. I'm stretched so thin
these days. When I was flying, I was intensely focussed one one thing;
flying. It wasn't too hard and I was good at it (both flying and the
focus bit). But now, I'm working in two fields of IT, flying casually,
trying to fit in some water skiing and in amongst that (and all the
other crap I didn't mention) I want (and need) to spend time with Nat
and Emily. Gah - there's just not enough time in a day!!

Last week I sprayed the lawns with some weed-and-feed. It's about as
caring as I get with grass. It's done a good job of killing the clover
and few other weeds in the lawn, but the bloody stuff has grown 2
inches in 6 days! Dammit as if I didn't have enough things to do
already! I think the next thing I'll spray on the lawn is "round-up"!!

Adding to my woes for the last month or so, has been slowly growing
problem. About a month ago I found my upper left arm (just below the
shoulder) started to ache. A sharp ache that never went away. This has
progressed over the last 4 weeks or so to the point where if I tilt my
head back my whole right arm goes numb (put stays all warm and pink)
and my upper-arm has a shooting pain right through it. If I tilt my
head back further, the numbness in my arm spreads further up making my
entire left arm basically completely numb plus I get the added bonus
of stabbing pain in my spine right between my shoulder blades. Great.

I went and saw my GP who ordered a CT scan (aka "cat scan") of my
upper back, but it came back "normal". So I've got a referral to see a
neurologist but he's booked solid until mid January 2006!! Dammit -
I've got to put up with this until then?! I might go back to my GP and
see if there's anyone else they can refer me to - I've got private
health insurance, I shouldn't have to wait!

I'll keep everyone posted on how that little saga works out :)
