.. title: Phew! Now I can talk about it!!
.. slug: Phew_Now_I_can_talk_about_it
.. date: 2004-01-05 10:13:00 UTC+10:00
.. tags: James,blog
.. category: 
.. link: 

At last. I can make a mention on my weblog about the biggest news in
our household since Nat and I got married; we are expecting our first
child! :-) WOOT! Nat's now 12 weeks into the whole pregnancy thing and
(now that the morning sickness has abated) is actually starting to
enjoy it! Poor thing. Talk about feeling useless; Nat's been feeling
like she been on a permanent diet of "dodgey chicken" and I couldn't
do anything to help. I guess making sure there's a bucket near the bed
and a towel, and making sure there's a bottle of water for her to sip
etc, is helping, but I wanted her to feel better. I guess that's part
of the "team thing" - she carries the child, I'm the support crew.
Speaking of support, it's amazing how bad the doctor's insurance
debarcle has affected obstetrics in the Illawarra. We are fully
insured private patients but Nat can't get in to see an obstetrician
until mid February! There's just not enough specialists to go around.
It's very frustrating but what can we do? I really hope our medical
system doesn't end like the USA. That would be hell.

As for the whole fatherhood thing, well I guess it's growing on me.
It's something I have to get used to and I've still got a few months
yet. The thing that made it difficult was that Nat fell prgnant so
quickly (we were trying for 1 week!). We went from "not trying to have
kids" to "trying to have kids" to "your gonna be parents" in the space
of 6 days!! We honestly were expecting it to take a little
longer...but it didn't. I guess God really wants us to be parents! :P
Nat assures me that I'll be a good dad but I'm not so sure. I'm
worried that I'll probably be a very demanding dad with high
expectations - that's not fair on kids though. I guess I'll want them
to do their best and all, but one thing that **really** irritates me
is when people give up and I **know** they haven't extended themselves
to the limit of their abilities. Some people can achieve a task with
minimal effort others may need to give it 100% to do the same task - I
understand this. My only beef is with people who give up and I know
they haven't given their best shot. How do I instill this "best effort
always" ethos without crushing their delicate little hearts or giving
them the impression I don't love them? Any ideas here are welcome!

Other than all that, the last couple of weeks has just been a matter
of going through the motions. Not a lot has changed yet. Nat's study
is slowy taking shape as the nursery and other matters of practicality
slowly unfold. I've been told the last few months of the pregnancy are
when it gets really interesting...but I'll have to wait and see - so
far it's great just to read what's happenning week-by-week with our
little one and that sort of thing. For me though, the thing that took
me most by suprise was the change in the way I see Nat. She is my
friend, my wife and partner, but now she is also going to be the
mother of our children! I know that sounds obvious, but now that it
has actually happened, I can honestly say it has added another level
to our relationship that is new and fresh and even exciting!

**We're gonna be parents!!**






