.. title: The Apple App Store versus the Vendor
.. slug: The_Apple_App_Store_versus_the_Vendor
.. date: 2011-01-21 00:18:35 UTC+10:00
.. tags: technology
.. category: 
.. link: 

First of all, let's get something straight: I LIKE the Apple App Store
for OSX. It provides a great virus/malware-free repository of quality
software that's an absolute breeze to install and maintain. However,
the pricing of the applications is somewhat disappointing to put it
mildly.

.. TEASER_END

Some software titles are great value. For instance if you want iPhoto
but not the entire "iLife" suite, then being able to pay peanuts for
just that one component is a great offer! Then there's the antithesis
of this pricing where despite the Australian dollar flirting with
parity against the US dollar, we are being charged ridiculous prices
begging the question, "why bother"?

Here's a case at hand. I've been wanting to increase the quality and
frequency of the articles I publish on this site and using the built-
in tools, whilst good, limits me to only writing when I'm online :(
Bummer. So I went hunting and found a great piece of software called
`MarsEdit`_. After downloading the 30 day trial I'm satisfied it meets
my needs and is worth paying for. So I went to the OSX App Store, and
found this:

.. image:: /assets/images/MarsEdit-AppStore.png

Listed in Australian dollars, so on the current exchange rate is
USD$47.35

This seemed a little steep for an application that does little more
than turn WYSIWYG into HTML and pump it into an API provided by my
CMS. So I went directly to the vendor and found this:

.. image:: /assets/images/MarsEdit-Direct.png

Now given that the OSX App Store in USD is $47.35 and direct from the
vendor is $39.95, that's a *price hike of 18.5% for the privilege of
using the Apple App Store*! This then raises an interesting question;
how much overhead should Apple be charging for the consumer for the
convenience of the App Store. Lets not forget the vendor though; is
this grossly inflated price passed on to them? Who pockets the
difference?

I've worked for a company that was in the business of distributing
other vendor's software and the consumer often paid a small premium
for fixed-price software as the distributor took the risk on the
exchange rate and locked in prices for an arbitrary period. The longer
the lock-in, the higher the premium. However, with the Australian
economy one of the strongest in the developed world, despite recent
natural disasters, it makes me wonder how long Apple are locking in
prices with vendors...years? decades? glacial ages? heat death of the
universe??

Needless to say, I spent my money directly with the vendor in this
instance. The 18.5% premium just isn't worth the overhead for such a
simple application.

.. _MarsEdit: http://www.red-sweater.com/marsedit/


