.. title: Graduation
.. slug: Graduation
.. date: 2010-07-21 04:54:14 UTC+10:00
.. tags: James,blog
.. category: 
.. link: 

Well it had to happen eventually, given enough time I guess it was
inevitable, but finally, *I HAVE GRADUATED*! Today I was honoured to
be given the award of Bachelor of Computer Science, with a major in
Secure Distributed Systems. 

I was very privileged to have my beautiful wife, Natalie, and my
parents accompany me as guests to the graduation ceremony. After the
formalities, we all went home, collected my daughters and went out for
dinner. A fairly low-key affair given that it is Wednesday night, but
we all had a ball.

I've thoroughly enjoyed the opportunity to simply drink in the
occasion, reflect on the last 9+ years and share the whole experience
with the people I care about the most. Working full time and raising a
family certainly impacted the time it has taken to complete my degree,
but I wouldn't want it any other way. If I ever have to opportunity to
study full time without the stress of paying bills etc, I'm sure I
will jump at it. However, until I win the lottery, I doubt I will ever
know what it is like to "*just study*".

Thanks to all my friends who have supported me in so many ways. A
special thanks to Mike, Peter dZ, Andrew, Rocci, and Bel who I met
whilst studying and still have the pleasure of sharing their company.
You guys have been such a huge support and inspiration (having
graduated years ago!). To all the other close friends who have
encouraged and challenged me to keep going and look forward to the end
goal - thank you so very much.

Thank you to everyone who has made this achievement possible. For more
photos from today, check out the `gallery here`_.

.. _gallery here: http://gray.net.au/galleries/2010-07-21/Graduation/

