.. title: Flying Again :)
.. slug: Flying_Again
.. date: 2005-07-17 15:56:00 UTC+10:00
.. tags: James,blog
.. category: 
.. link: 

I went flying today with two good friends; Andrew and Michelle. It was
bumpy with howling (30kt) SW winds but despite the nerves and
turbulence they say they had a good time. The strong winds weren't all
bad though; it cleared the pollution from Sydney's air and we could
see from the coast to the mountains!

Departure was planned for 10am local, but we didn't get off the ground
until 10:34. That's what happens when a plane has been left idle for 2
weeks and no-one knows how much fuel, etc. I hadn't planned on needing
to pump it full of fuel and sort out a few other paper-work things.
But we got off the ground and simply needed to tell Flight Watch to
amend the SAR (Search-And-Rescue) time.

The trip north was pretty gentle to start with. We climbed out to
1500ft and tracked coastal to Stanwell Park. Once there, we dropped
down to 500ft continuing coastal to Sydney Heads via "Victor One" -
the low-level corridor that gets you along the coast and under the
controlled airspace around Sydney.

Approaching South Head, I called up for an airways clearance to do
some orbits (circles) at the Harbour Bridge, which was granted. I
tried to get a more direct clearance home but due to the active runway
in Sydney (07/25) they couldn't clear me from the bridge to fly south
- bugger. Back the way we came :( So it was back out to Sydney Heads,
drop down to 500ft, south via Victor One, then back to Wollongong via
the coast. I did climb back up to 2500ft once clear of the controlled
airspace to smooth things out for Andrew and Michelle.

On the way back home we spotted a pair of migrating whales on their
way north just east of Stanwell Park. It appeared to be a mother and
calf (could've been father and calf, but it didn't roll over for us to
check it's gender :P). A couple of tight orbits near the whales, but
alas no brilliant photo's...they don't surface long enough to get a
good shot from an aircraft moving at nearly 200km/h! Still, it was a
wonderful sight.

Both my trusty (or is that "trusting"??) passengers managed to get
through their first ( ever ) flight in a light plane with nerves
intact...breakfast wasn't quite so lucky - that turbulence at 500ft
between Cronulla and Stanwell Park was quite rough.
