.. title: Father's Day
.. slug: fathers-day
.. date: 2014-09-07 18:08:45 UTC+10:00
.. tags: blog,James
.. link: 
.. description: Father's Day 2014
.. type: text

Today is Father's Day in Australia.  I thought it might be an opportune time
to commit to text some thoughts about fatherhood that have been percolating in
the back of my mind for a while.  Thoughts that have spurred me to action to
ensure I can be the father my daughters deserve.

.. TEASER_END

Not that long ago I read an article that really challenged me.  It presented
the notion that children have a time in their lives when they still highly
regard and respect their parents, are old enough to start to understand adult
concepts and are still pliable in their thinking.  As they get older, and the
teenage years set in, they become less likely to listen to their parents, with
their values and beliefs beginning to crystallise into life-long shapes.  This
precious window of influence varies from child to child but generally exists
between mid-primary to early high school.  My own children are either in or
entering this time.

This led me to think long and hard about what influence I was having on my own
daughters.  What example am I setting them?  What will their views of fathers,
husbands and men in general be as a result of my influence?  The honest
answers to these questions were hard.  I spent most of my time at work.  When
I was home, I was too stressed, tired and emotionally exhausted to really
engage with my wife or my daughters.  Practically; rarely around.
Emotionally; unavailable. Physically; too weary to be involved.  What a
terrible example! So `I made changes </posts/new-beginnings.html>`_ and set
about reconnecting with my family.  Here's the results after a few short
weeks, even with a broken shoulder.

Firstly, I made a conscious effort to support my wife with discipline.  Now,
when people say "*discipline*" what they often mean is "*punishment*"; this
isn't what I'm referring to.  Punishment can be a tool for achieving
discipline, but isn't in and of itself discipline.  Doing what is expected of
you, even when you may not want to, or when you aren't being supervised;
**this** is discipline!  Now I am far more involved in making sure the girls
do exactly this.  Oddly enough, it doesn't need a lot shouting, threatening or
waving a big stick.  In actuality, I find if I gently and assertively make
certain the girls are operating and behaving in a way we deem appropriate,
they are far more likely to continue in that pattern even when we aren't
watching.  I give them lots of positive reinforcement, reward them when they
do the right thing and be very generous with hugs.  The bonus is, I am setting
a standard I hope they hold their future husbands to.  I hope they see the
absence of violence, aggression and emotional manipulation as a hard necessity
in the way any man treats them, but especially their future children (*not too
soon though!*)

The other aspect I have noticed is with my relationship with my (long
suffering) wife.  The extra support I can provide her with the domestic
duties, is allowing her to relax more in the freedom of knowing and seeing
this is a team effort, again.  I'd almost forgotten what quiet, relaxed
evenings at home felt like! The added emotional energy we **both** have is
obviously beneficial, but as a father I hope my daughters watch the way I
interact with my wife.  I hope they learn how a man treats his wife; with
tenderness, respect, support and genuine affection. Again, harshness,
aggression, manipulation and competitiveness have no place between my wife and I.
Now I am by no means "husband of the century" and I fail.  Often.  It's just
as important to show my children that humility and contrition are just as
important.  When we say sorry, if the situation is appropriate, I let my
children see that men can be wrong and when I am, how I make up.  Learning how
to say sorry, be forgiven and restore a relationship is such a crucial skill
in any relationship and sorely lacking in modern society.

While there have been some fairly radical changes in the Gray house recently,
the early signs are overwhelmingly positive.  I'm committed to ensure my girls
learn the value of family, learn from my example how *real* men behave toward
and around women.  If I want my girls to find a life long partnership that
allows them to fulfil their dreams in a healthy and vibrant relationship, I
need to hold myself to the standards I want them to expect from that partner.
I need to lead by example, love until it hurts, always put my family first and
be the Dad and husband they deserve!  Being a father and husband is huge
honour and massive responsibility.  I hope and pray I can be the father my
daughters need and deserve.  Happy Father's Day to all the dads out there -
it's a tough job but the rewards are immense!
